Term entry] sql math functions atan (#2419)
Codecademy/docs: content/sql/concepts/math-functions/terms/atan/atan.md

> ---

Reviewer: You still need to update the metadata to be properly formatted. The rules for the metadata can be found [here](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md#metadata).

The **`ATAN()`** function is widely supported across various SQL database systems, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server. Its availability in these systems enables users to perform complex calculations involving angles and trigonometry directly within their SQL queries, providing a convenient and efficient means of processing numerical data. Whether it's calculating the inclination of lines, performing geometric transformations, or solving problems involving angles, the `ATAN()` function proves to be a valuable tool for mathematical computations within the SQL environment.

## Syntax

The syntax of the **`ATAN()`** function in SQL is as follows:

```sql
ATAN(expression)
```

- If the input expression is a numeric value, the **`ATAN()`** function returns the arctangent of that value in radians.
- If the input expression is `NULL`, the **`ATAN()`** function also returns `NULL`.

## Example

This example calculates the arctangent of a specific value:

```sql
SELECT ATAN(1.5) AS Arctangent_Result;
```

> In this SQL code example, the **`ATAN()`** function is used to compute the arctangent of the value 1.5. The result is given the alias "Arctangent_Result" using the AS keyword, which allows you to assign a name to the column representing the calculated value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this SQL code example, the **`ATAN()`** function is used to compute the arctangent of the value 1.5. The result is given the alias "Arctangent_Result" using the AS keyword, which assigns a name to the column representing the calculated value.
```

The **`SELECT`** statement is used to retrieve the result of the calculation. By executing this query, the database system will evaluate the arctangent of 1.5 and return the result. The specific output may vary depending on the database system and its default unit for angles (radians or degrees).

> For instance, if you execute this code in MySQL, the output would be approximately 0.9828 if the output is in radians. If the output is in degrees, the result would be approximately 56.31 degrees. The exact output would depend on the database system and its configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, when executed in MySQL, the output would be approximately 0.9828 if the output is in radians. If the output is in degrees, the result would be approximately 56.31 degrees. The exact output would depend on the database system and its configuration.
```

> By using this code snippet as a basis, you can substitute different values inside the **`ATAN()`** function to calculate the arctangent of other numbers in your SQL queries. The resulting value can be retrieved with a specific alias to make the output more descriptive and meaningful.

Reviewer: You can delete this line.

---

> Title: ATAN Function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'ATAN()'
```

> Description: Trigonometric function returning the arctangent angle in SQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the arctangent of a provided number.'
```

> Subjects:

Reviewer: The subjects need to be in single quotes and need to come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md).

  - SQL
  - Mathematics

> Tags:

Reviewer: The tags need to be in single quotes and need to come from [this list](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md).

---
Title: 'ATAN()'
Description: 'Returns the arctangent of a provided number.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'SQL'
  - 'MySQL'
  - 'PostgreSQL'
  - 'SQLite'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
 - 'learn-sql'
 - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
---

> The **`ATAN()`** function in SQL is a mathematical function utilized to compute the arctangent of a provided number. It evaluates the angle, measured in radians, whose tangent corresponds to the specified number. This function finds its utility in numerous mathematical and analytical calculations, such as determining angles or performing trigonometric operations within SQL queries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`ATAN()`** function in SQL is a mathematical function utilized to compute the arctangent of a provided number. The function takes an angle, measured in radians, and returns the arctangent, also known as the inverse of the tangent. This function is used in numerous mathematical and analytical calculations, such as determining angles or performing trigonometric operations within SQL queries.
```

> The **`ATAN()`** function is widely supported across various SQL database systems, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server. Its availability in these systems enables users to perform complex calculations involving angles and trigonometry directly within their SQL queries, providing a convenient and efficient means of processing numerical data. Whether it's calculating the inclination of lines, performing geometric transformations, or solving problems involving angles, the `ATAN()` function proves to be a valuable tool for mathematical computations within the SQL environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** `ATAN()` is widely supported across various SQL database systems, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server. Review the documentation of the specific database system for implementation details.
```

## Syntax

> The syntax of the **`ATAN()`** function in SQL is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

ATAN(expression)
```

- If the input expression is a numeric value, the **`ATAN()`** function returns the arctangent of that value in radians.

> - If the input expression is `NULL`, the **`ATAN()`** function also returns `NULL`.

Reviewer 2: The function should only be formatted in bold once at the beginning of the entry

## Example

This example calculates the arctangent of a specific value:

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: There should be an additional output block showing the result of the example code

> ---

Reviewer: This is not a properly formatted metadata section. You can learn how to put together a metadata section in the style guide [here](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md#metadata).

Author: ok sir I will do that thank you for reviewing

title: ATAN Function
short_description: Explanation and usage of the ATAN function in SQL.
---

> The ATAN function in SQL is a mathematical function used to calculate the arctangent of a given number. It returns the angle (in radians) whose tangent is the specified number. This function is useful in various mathematical and analytical calculations, such as determining angles or performing trigonometric operations in SQL queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`ATAN()`** function in SQL is a mathematical function used to calculate the arctangent of a given number. It returns the angle (in radians) whose tangent is the specified number. This function is useful in various mathematical and analytical calculations, such as determining angles or performing trigonometric operations in SQL queries.
```

> ## SQL Database Compatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Let's remove this header and the blank line that precedes it.

The ATAN function is supported by most SQL database systems, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and Microsoft SQL Server.

## Syntax

The syntax of the ATAN function in SQL is as follows:

```sql
ATAN(expression)
```

## Behavior

> - If the input expression is a numeric value, the ATAN function returns the arctangent of that value in radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the input expression is a numeric value, the `ATAN()` function returns the arctangent of that value in radians.
```

> - If the input expression is NULL, the ATAN function also returns NULL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the input expression is `NULL`, the `ATAN()` function also returns `NULL`.
```

> ## Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> 1. Calculating the arctangent of a specific value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example calculates the arctangent of a specific value:
```

```sql
SELECT ATAN(1.5);

> SELECT id, value, ATAN(value) AS arctan_value

Reviewer: Remove this second example and all the extra blank lines from this code block.

FROM my_table;

```

> 

Reviewer: Delete everything below here.
